# Spirtuality

How does one gain control of one's psyche. 


Anger doesn't help anyone. 



I'm not religious.I lost my religion pull at a young age but 

"Comparison is the thief of joy"

Modern life is driven by success. Why has money become so important? Does money
give us freedom? Money gives us status? What is the state of our hearts? Does
money occupy us? We are frightned of not being occupied. We wear ourselves out keeping ourselves occupieed.
Is it possible not to be occupied?

Can you have no single thought?

The occupied mind is not good for you. A mind that is occupied cannot experience something that is original.

Don't escape from suffering.

Why doesn't man want to live in peace?


what do i do ?

How do we escape from fear? 

Is all we do meaningless? Now a days we get into fantasy movies where people dress up in spandex. It has no real meaning. Marvel, Star wars, Lord of the rings etc. It's al bs. Don't get me wrong i loved this stuff, it's my go to movies. I was glued to reading harry potter and other fantasy series. I'm an adult now and seeing this stuff now just makes me cringe. Perhaps this is my inner child dying as i see the realities of the world.

Fast food and sugar has trapped us. I can't think of 10 healthy stores near me that can give me fresh food, but fast food it rolls off my tongue so easily.Most food is laced with so many compounds you don't even know about.

Money is another trap. Consumerism is real. People get stuck in buying the right furniture and getting more and more goods. Amazon only enables us, it's so easy to order something cheap and it gets delivered right to our doors the next day (sometimes the same day!).

Dating apps. Now you can't even approach people because they think you are creepy. It's all done via apps. Society is highly sexualised now.

Traditions like christmas, halloween, birthdays, new years. All bs events. Oh well done for living a year longer. Now what? It means nothing. 

Is it all designed to keep us in a haze. Dull our brains into not seeing the true world.

We are kept distracted from the reality of the world. We are all going to die. No one can stop it. It's 100% happening. It's the only certainty. 

Culturual customs. We humans invent customs that just mean nothing. Weddings- why do you need to spend a ridiculous amount of money for a wedding day. That money could be going to your future child or even other suffering families. Instead, we choose to splash for a single day.

Cost of living just keeps rising for us. Human comparisons continue. Humans compare themselves to others nearby and want to fit in. 


We humans are like a parasite to this world. Slowly killign it. 



- Discipline is overrated. Use strict bets to do what you need to do. 
- keep a track of what worked and what didn't so you can repeat what did 
- I dont like live music anymore. Saw loads. And it just got boring. 

I dont buy new books only used books.

Dedicate yourself until you reach mastery. My current skill is muay thai and coding. 
