

What is validation of a model?
A model is valid when it takes in sensible inputs and outputs sensible outputs. Model validation is the
process we go through checking that the model works for it's intended
purpose.

Remember: ``All models are wrong, but some are useful'' George Box.

What are strategies to validate a new model? - Empircal validation:
Compare to real building dat - Intermodel validation: comparing to other
models - Analystical validaition: simple test casese to verify algoritms

Empirical validation- look at measurement and uncertainty error of data
sources Intermodel validation - no absolute truth inputs.

Validation metrics - NMBE - Normalised mean bias error - CV RMSE
-Coefficient of Variation of Root mean square error

Sources: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7506729/
https://publications.ibpsa.org/proceedings/bs/2019/papers/BS2019\_210263.pdf
https://informs-sim.org/wsc12papers/includes/files/inv156.pdf
https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/71321148.pdf

Validate To validate your new building energy model by comparing it against an existing one, you should consider the following
key actions and checks: 1. Validate Internal Physics Calculations: *
Ensure the model outputs correctly calculate internal building physics
such as heat flow, internal temperatures, thermal mass effects, solar
gains, and internal heat gains (from occupants, appliances, lighting). *
Check that thermal response of building envelope components (walls,
roof, windows) is accurately represented. 
* Confirm modeling of
ventilation, infiltration, and HVAC system energy use aligns well. 2.
Comparative Validation: 
* Compare your new model outputs with the
existing model's results across various scenarios (e.g., different
weather data, occupancy schedules). * Focus on major performance metrics
like space heating and cooling loads, internal temperatures, and energy
use. * Look for consistent agreement and understand any deviations to
identify possible model errors or assumptions differences. 3. Empirical
Validation (if possible): * Use measured real building data (e.g.,
temperature, energy consumption) for absolute validation of the
simulated results. * Make sure input data like weather, building
geometry, construction materials, and occupancy behavior are as accurate
as possible. * Perform uncertainty analysis using metrics like
Normalized Mean Bias Error (NMBE), Coefficient of Variation (CV), and R
squared to gauge calibration quality. 4. Follow Formal Validation
Protocols and Standards: * Use established methods such as ASHRAE
Standard 140 and BESTEST for benchmarking your model against known test
cases or hand calculations. * Employ calibration and verification
frameworks like ASHRAE Guideline 14 or International Performance
Measurement and Verification Protocol (IPMVP) where appropriate. 5.
Address Model Input and Assumption Differences: * Verify that building
geometry, material properties, weather data inputs, and occupant
schedules are consistent between the models. * Pay close attention to
assumptions around occupant behavior, equipment use, and control
strategies, which can introduce significant variability. 6. Iteratively
Refine Your Model: * Use discrepancies found in the comparative or
empirical validation to refine your model. * Repeat validation steps
after adjustments to converge on a robust and accurate energy model. In
summary, validation goes beyond confirming internal physics
calculations; it requires thorough comparative analysis against other
models or measured data, careful handling of inputs and assumptions, use
of recognized protocols, and iterative refinements based on validation
findings. This comprehensive approach helps ensure the model reliably
predicts building energy performance under various conditions.core+2 1.
https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/71321148.pdf 2.
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7506729/ 3.
https://informs-sim.org/wsc12papers/includes/files/inv156.pdf 4.
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/657859f7095987000d95debe/hem-val-04-in-use-validation-building-for-2050.pdf
5.
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S2352710223024701
6.
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/65e1f99a2f2b3b001c7cd879/home-energy-model-consultation.pdf
7.
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1364032123007475
8.
https://bigladdersoftware.com/epx/docs/22-1/essentials/essentials.html
9.
https://publications.ibpsa.org/proceedings/bs/2019/papers/BS2019\_210263.pdf
10. https://www.elmhurstenergy.co.uk/the-home-energy-model/
